Now, let us see that physical address, the following Botterill address map Stroope so suppose the
caption reads the following which will address now the first two weeks of this virtual address is used
as an indexing to the top level page table.
So one zero corresponds to two.
It means the second entry of the space table is hit.
Now here you have a physical address.
Twenty four.
It means that we need to reference our next level best table, which is loaded at physical at restaurants
four in the main memory.
So this is table that is P1 three is located in frame number six of physical memory.
Now, the next bit is again, two, it means that second index entry of the space table will hit and
the second level peace table is located at physical address trending.
So now we have arrived at Penn State will be two, three.
Now, the next set of Bluebird's in this virtual atlas is one one, which corresponds to three.
So the entry corresponding to index number three will be hit and Penn State will be to the three.
And this is the final level of base table that for this eleven represents the frame number.
So we have mapped to frame number 11 in the main memory so far.
Now, the last two weeks of this virtual address is an offset and this offset corresponds to one, therefore
adding one to the starting physical address of frame eleven.
We get the physical atlas forty five.
It means that this virtual address maps to the physical atlas.
Forty five in physical memory.
So you can see that multi-level purging is quite easy.
In fact, you should practice numerical example based on multilevel paging.
You can find certain practice questions and assignment section of this lecture.
You can also see that various entries in this piece table are actually null, for example, in pairs.
What we went to corresponding to the index, number one, the entry is null.
It simply means that there exists no second level page table corresponding to this entry in page number
one or two.
So now let us do the comparison between multilevel paging scheme and a single level paging scheme.
Now you can see that if this configuration used single level paging scheme, then what would have been
the size of page table?
We know the size of the peace table is equal to the peace table and to size and the number of virtual
pages of a process.
So far, a single level painting scheme the size of the piece tables would have been sixty four bytes.
Now you already know how to compute this, whereas in case of multilevel paging scheme, the size of
the peace table is always fixed and constant and it is equal to the frame size.
So that appears stable, can be completely loaded in exactly one frame of the main memory.
Therefore, the size of the table will going to be four bytes because the size of the frame as per our
configuration is four bytes.
In single level trading scheme, each process has exactly one page table.
Right, but this doesn't hold good in case of multilevel trading scheme.
No stable part process in our example can be maximum of sixty five per process here.
The additional one is because of top level page table.
So you can see in the previous slide, if there were normal values in the peace table and trees, and
let us suppose that each peace table entry points to the peace table at the next level.
So the maximum number of peace tables would have been sixty five, right.
Number of tables at second level would have been folded into four and no page tables at first label
is four and then we have one top level page.
So the maximum number of pages, tables that a process can use is sixty five now coming to the memory
differences in single level page scheme.
But what that does is map to the physical address by using one memory reference by memory difference,
which means that how many times we need to look up into a page table since in single level in the scheme
we have only one page table.
Therefore we need to look up only one time in a given page table in order to locate a frame number of
uninterest.
Whereas in our example of multi-level paging scheme, we have three levels of pages and hence we need
to look up into page tables three times in order to map a given virtual address to physical address.
So it was for this reason that multilabel page in the scheme performs as low as compared to single level
trading scheme.
And we have already illustrated that how far small processors, most of the peace table is empty, right.
But in the multilevel trading scheme, we do not even create peace tables when there is no need to recreate
and delete peace tables on demand.
For example, in our multilabel paging scheme for all the virtual addresses which belongs to this sect.
Now, here, acts represent don't care.
It means that it could be one or it could be zero.
So for all the virtual addresses which belongs to this family or this said, there are no peace table
created for mapping virtual address to a physical address for the strange.
Similarly, another example of what will address space, which required creation of nopales table is
the following which will address.
So let us see how this works, will address, do not require us to create peace tables.
So the return address is zero zero one, followed by all access.
So I will address as zero zero one followed by a five times don't care.
So let us see this virtual address mapping in our example.
So we have virtual address zero zero one and five times X right now.
The first two bits of this virtual address maps to the end.
Exito, which take us to the next page tab will be one dot one, not the next two bits is one x one
X corresponds to two as well as three.
If X value is zero, then it means two and if X value is one, then it means three.
Now in both situations there is no next level peace table.
So it means that there is no need to create next level peace table if the process has not used what
that does to space, which belongs to this set of virtual addresses.
So multi-level pitching scheme also solves the problem of hominess stables.
We don't have to create unnecessary beds, tables or peace table entries corresponding to virtual addresses,
which is not being used by a process.
Now, you must do various numerical examples that are given in the assignment section of this lecture.
There are many new medicals which are often asked based on multilevel paging.
In fact, doing assignments on multi-level paging Will will give you better insight and understanding
into multilevel paging scheme.